# Architectural Patterns from GPU-Scoring-Tool (GST) to Apply in Inferno

## 1. Layered Architecture: **Glyphd** (Stateful Orchestrator) vs **GlyphSieve** (Stateless Processor)

**Clear Separation of Responsibilities:** In *gpu-scoring-tool*, the
system is split into distinct layers, with **Glyphd** and **GlyphSieve**
as two key components occupying different roles. **Glyphd** acts as a
long-lived orchestrator (a daemon service) that manages the overall
*dataflow* of the application. It continuously gathers input data (e.g.
GPU metrics or job info) and feeds this data through a processing
pipeline. Crucially, **Glyphd** maintains **state** -- for example,
caching current GPU states, tracking ongoing scoring operations, and
storing results needed across multiple pipeline runs. This stateful
design means Glyphd "owns" the context and memory of the system's
operation.

**Dataflow Integration with DTOs:** Glyphd integrates with a dataflow
pipeline by packaging information into **Data Transfer Objects (DTOs)**
at each stage. Instead of passing around raw internal structures, the
system uses well-defined DTO classes to carry data from one component or
stage to another. This approach decouples the data representation from
internal implementations -- each pipeline stage only relies on the DTO's
interface. Glyphd, as the orchestrator, creates and populates these DTOs
(for example, assembling GPU usage stats into a `GpuMetricsDTO`), then
passes them down the pipeline for processing. Using DTOs enforces a
clean contract: Glyphd doesn't need to know the details of how
downstream logic works, and conversely those processors don't reach back
into Glyphd's internal state except through the provided DTO interface.
This results in a **modular dataflow** -- easy to extend or modify by
changing DTO definitions or adding new pipeline stages without breaking
other parts.

**Stateless Processing (GlyphSieve):** In contrast, **GlyphSieve** is a
*stateless* component that performs intensive computation or filtering
on the data. The name "Sieve" suggests it filters or derives insights
(e.g. scoring or ranking GPUs) from the incoming DTO data. GlyphSieve
does **not** preserve any state between invocations -- every time Glyphd
calls it, it operates only on the given input and returns a result. All
context it needs is passed in via the DTO, and it produces output
(perhaps another DTO or a simple result) without side effects. This
stateless design has multiple benefits: it's easier to test (pure
functions with no external dependencies), safer to run in parallel or
scale out, and it can be reused in different contexts. Glyphd can call
GlyphSieve repeatedly or even on multiple data sets concurrently,
confident that each run won't interfere with others.

**Stateful vs Stateless Collaboration:** The **combination** of a
stateful orchestrator with stateless workers is a powerful architectural
pattern. Glyphd manages high-level coordination -- deciding *when* to
run the pipeline, *which* data to process, and aggregating the
**stateful results** (e.g., updating a global view of GPU scores over
time). GlyphSieve and other stateless pipeline stages handle the *pure
computation*, focusing on *how* to process the data each time. For
example, Glyphd might detect that a new job needs GPU scoring, package
the relevant data into a DTO, and invoke GlyphSieve to calculate a
suitability score for each GPU. Once GlyphSieve returns scores, Glyphd
may update its internal state (like an assignment map or cache) and
possibly trigger further actions. At no point does GlyphSieve need to
know about the broader system state -- it simply computes based on input
and hands results back. This separation ensures that complex state
management (caching, accumulated knowledge, system decisions) is
localized in Glyphd, while the heavy-lifting algorithms remain isolated
and free of side-effects. It's an approach that **reduces coupling**:
changes to how state is managed don't ripple into the scoring logic, and
the scoring algorithm can be improved or replaced without altering
global state handling.

**Benefits for Inferno:** Adopting this layered approach in *inferno*
means identifying which parts of the system should maintain long-term
state and orchestrate processes (similar to Glyphd), versus which parts
can be implemented as pure functions or stateless services (like
GlyphSieve). Using DTOs in the dataflow will similarly enforce module
boundaries -- inferno's components will communicate through well-defined
data packets rather than direct object references, making the system
more maintainable. Overall, the Glyphd/GlyphSieve pattern encourages a
clean separation of concerns: **stateful coordination** on one side and
**stateless computation** on the other. This yields a system that is
easier to reason about, test, and extend, as seen in GPU-Scoring-Tool's
robust design.

## 2. Custom Linting Framework and Module-Boundary Rules

**Purpose of the Linter:** The *gpu-scoring-tool* project includes a
custom **linting framework** (found under the `src` directory) dedicated
to enforcing architectural conventions in the codebase. Unlike standard
linters that just catch syntax issues or style deviations, this one is
geared toward **maintaining the intended architecture**. In practice,
this means automatically checking that developers don't introduce
couplings or violations that break the layered design. By porting these
lint rules into *inferno*, you ensure that the same architectural
discipline carries over.

**Structure of the Linter:** The linter is structured as a set of rule
definitions and a runner that scans the code. Each rule targets a
specific architectural constraint. For example, one rule might enforce
**module boundaries** -- preventing imports or references from a
higher-level layer into a lower-level layer (or vice versa) if that
violates the dependency direction. In GPU-Scoring-Tool, you likely
defined layers or modules (e.g., a core computation layer, a data access
layer, an interface layer, etc.), and the linter knows which
dependencies are allowed. The rules could be organized in code as
classes or functions (e.g., `ForbiddenImportRule`,
`LayerDependencyRule`) that describe patterns to search for in the AST
of the code. The linter's engine then walks through all files and
sub-modules under `src/`, applying these rules one by one. If a rule is
broken -- say, a utility module somehow imports a higher-level service
module -- the linter flags an error with a clear message about the
forbidden dependency.

**Enforced Architectural Rules:** Some key architectural rules enforced
might include:

- **Layered Dependency Direction:** Each layer can only depend on the
  layer(s) below it, never above. For instance, in GPU-Scoring-Tool, the
  low-level GPU interfacing code would never import from the high-level
  scheduling logic. If *inferno* follows a similar pattern, the linter
  will ensure, for example, that no module in `inferno/core` imports
  something from `inferno/api` (if we treat core as lower-level than
  api). This keeps high-level policies from leaking into low-level
  utilities.

- **No Cyclic Dependencies:** The linter likely checks that modules
  don't form cycles (A depends on B, and B on A), which can subtly
  introduce state sharing or order-of-initialization bugs. In a
  well-architected system, dependency graphs should be acyclic and
  hierarchical. The lint rules would catch if someone inadvertently
  created an import cycle between, say, Glyphd's module and GlyphSieve's
  module -- ensuring they remain independent except for the data passed
  via DTOs.

- **Restricted Imports and APIs:** Another rule might restrict using
  certain modules or functions directly. For example, if Glyphd is the
  only component allowed to update global state, the linter could forbid
  other modules from modifying that state or calling specific stateful
  methods. Or if GPU scoring logic (GlyphSieve) should remain pure, the
  linter might flag any attempt within GlyphSieve's code to access
  external resources or global variables. Essentially, each module has a
  clear contract of what it can and cannot do, enforced by lint checks.

- **Naming/Placement Conventions:** The linting framework could also
  enforce naming schemes that reflect architecture. Perhaps DTO classes
  must live in a `dto` package or end with the suffix "DTO". Or test
  files must mirror the structure of implementation files. These
  conventions ensure consistency and make it easy to locate things.
  While not directly about module boundaries, they strengthen the
  architecture by making deviations obvious (and thus catchable by the
  linter).

**Utility and Benefits:** The presence of these lint rules is like
having an automated architecture guardian. Developers get immediate
feedback if they try to do something that contradicts the intended
design. This has several benefits:

- *Prevents Erosion of Design:* Over time, in absence of such rules, a
  project's structure can degrade as different people make pragmatic
  shortcuts. The linter stops that by making the build/test fail when an
  architectural shortcut is taken. In GPU-Scoring-Tool this kept the
  Glyphd/GlyphSieve separation and other layer boundaries intact over
  many changes. For inferno, it will do the same, keeping the code
  **clean and modular** as it grows.

- *Documentation of Architecture:* Each lint rule effectively documents
  a principle of the system's design. For example, if there's a rule
  "LINT100: No import of `infra.*` in `core.*`," it tells every
  contributor that *core* level code should not know about
  *infrastructure* details. The rules make implicit design decisions
  explicit. Reviewing the lint rules gives a quick insight into the
  architecture philosophy of the project. New team members can learn
  from them, and existing members are reminded to stay on course.

- *Ease of Translation to Inferno:* Because these rules are code-based
  and likely configurable, you can adapt them to inferno's namespace and
  module structure. The investment made in writing them for
  GPU-Scoring-Tool can be leveraged in inferno with minimal tweaks
  (e.g., updating layer names or module paths). This ensures inferno
  starts with the **same high standards** of separation-of-concerns and
  will catch architecture violations early in development. In summary,
  the custom linter is a vital tool for architectural consistency,
  acting as both a safeguard and a form of living documentation.

## 3. Effective Task Definition in Junie (Example and Template)

GPU-Scoring-Tool's `.junie/tasks/closed` directory contains detailed
records of completed tasks, including commentary on how each task was
resolved. These serve as excellent examples of well-defined development
tasks. Below is a **mock exemplary task** (inspired by those records)
followed by an analysis of its structure. This template can guide you in
crafting future tasks for inferno:

    # Task: Implement GlyphSieve Dataflow Stage in Inferno

    **Status:** ✅ *Completed on 2025-07-10 by L. Brulé*  
    **Context:** The inferno project needs a stateless processing component for its data pipeline, similar to GPU-Scoring-Tool’s GlyphSieve. This task was created after noticing repeated patterns in data processing that could be abstracted into a reusable stage.  

    **Goal:** Develop a new **InfernoSieve** module that processes input DTOs without side effects, following the GlyphSieve pattern. It should integrate with inferno’s orchestrator (analogous to Glyphd) and improve code reuse and testability of the pipeline.  

    **Plan:**
    1. **Design the DTO structure** for data passed into the InfernoSieve (ensure it carries all necessary fields from orchestrator).  
    2. **Implement the InfernoSieve logic** as a pure function/class that takes the DTO and returns a result DTO or value. No global state or external calls inside.  
    3. **Integrate with Orchestrator:** Modify the inferno orchestrator to call InfernoSieve at the appropriate point in the dataflow, passing in the DTO and handling the result.  
    4. **Write Unit Tests** for InfernoSieve with representative input cases (to verify stateless behavior and correct output).  
    5. **Run Linter and Integration Tests** to ensure the new module respects all architecture rules (e.g., correct imports, no state leakage) and that it doesn’t break existing functionality.  

    **Completion Notes:** *The InfernoSieve implementation was completed successfully.* All unit tests passed, confirming stateless operation. Integration with the orchestrator revealed a needed change: the orchestrator’s DTO was extended with a new field for results. The custom linter flagged an import initially (InfernoSieve was improperly importing a higher-level orchestrator class), which was corrected by inverting the dependency (the orchestrator now calls InfernoSieve, as it should). This task’s outcome improves inferno’s pipeline maintainability and mirrors a proven pattern from GPU-Scoring-Tool. Future work: consider abstracting common pipeline patterns into a utility class to avoid duplicate code.

**Why this task is well-structured:**\

- **Descriptive Title:** The task title is specific about the action and
  component ("Implement GlyphSieve Dataflow Stage in Inferno"). A good
  task title gives a quick summary of what will be achieved. This one
  immediately tells us which part of the system (dataflow stage) and what
  pattern it's following (GlyphSieve analog).\
- **Context:** The task provides background on *why* it's needed --
  mentioning the analogous component in GPU-Scoring-Tool and the reason
  (repeated patterns in inferno's processing). This helps anyone reading
  (now or later) understand the motivation behind the task. Context might
  include references to problems observed or requirements. In the example,
  the context connects past experience (GlyphSieve's success) to current
  needs, justifying the work.\
- **Goal:** A clear statement of the intended outcome or deliverable. In
  our example, the goal is to develop a stateless `InfernoSieve` module
  that fits into the pipeline and improves reuse and testability. Stating
  the goal in terms of what will be achieved (and sometimes measurable
  criteria) ensures the task has a **definition of done**. It sets the
  target for the implementer and for reviewers to verify completion.\
- **Plan (Actionable Steps):** The task breaks down the work into a
  numbered list of concrete steps. This is crucial for larger tasks as it
  turns a broad goal into manageable actions. In the example plan: - Step
  1 is about design (DTO structure), - Step 2 implementation of logic, -
  Step 3 integration, - Step 4 testing, - Step 5 verification with
  linting/CI.\
  These steps cover the development cycle from design to integration,
  which is a hallmark of a comprehensive plan. Each step is phrased as an
  action ("Design...", "Implement...", "Integrate...", "Write tests...",
  "Run Linter..."), making it clear what needs to be done. A good task
  doesn't necessarily need such a detailed plan if it's simple, but
  including key checkpoints (especially for complex tasks) is a good
  practice. It not only guides the implementer but also provides insight
  to reviewers or future readers on how the solution was approached.\
- **Completion Notes (Commentary):** After finishing the task, a
  commentary or notes section records important outcomes, changes, or
  lessons. In the example, the notes confirm the success ("All unit tests
  passed") and then describe an unexpected finding (needed to extend the
  DTO, a linter flag that was resolved by adjusting dependencies). This is
  golden information for the future: if someone later wonders *"Why was
  the DTO format changed?"* or *"Why is the orchestrator calling this
  module in a particular way?"*, the answers are right in the task notes.
  The notes also highlight compliance with the architecture (stateless
  operation confirmed, linter enforced boundaries) -- reinforcing why
  those practices matter. Lastly, it mentions a potential follow-up
  (abstract common patterns), which effectively seeds new tasks or
  improvements without forgetting them.

**General Junie Tasking Pattern:** This example illustrates a general
pattern you can use for tasks in the Junie system (or any task tracking
in-code):

- *Start with a concise title and status.*
- *Give context or background for motivation.*
- *State a clear goal or intended outcome.*
- *Outline the plan or key steps to achieve it.*
- *After completion, note what was done and anything learned or
  changed.*

Such a structure ensures each task is self-contained and understandable
even months later. It makes onboarding easier (new contributors can read
closed tasks to catch up on project history) and creates a habit of
deliberate planning and reflection. By repeating this pattern, you
maintain consistency in task documentation, making inferno's development
more transparent and systematic.

## 4. Reusable Components and Standard Design Practices to Carry Forward

Finally, here's a **summary of reusable components and architectural
best practices** from GPU-Scoring-Tool that are valuable to standardize
across projects like inferno:

- **Stateful Orchestrator + Stateless Worker Pattern:** The
  Glyphd/GlyphSieve duo represents a reusable design pattern. For any
  complex workflow (not just GPU scoring), consider using a **stateful
  manager** component that handles scheduling, coordination, and
  accumulation of results, paired with **stateless processing units**
  that perform the core computations. This separation (often akin to a
  Controller vs Worker or Supervisor vs Task pattern) improves
  scalability and maintainability. In inferno, identify if you have
  similar needs -- for instance, a central service managing overall
  state and a set of pure functions or micro-services doing the heavy
  lifting. Embracing this pattern leads to cleaner code separation and
  easier debugging (you know state changes only happen in the
  orchestrator, and pure functions either work or have internal errors
  without side effects). It's a standard you can apply to many domains:
  isolate what *changes or persists* from what is *calculation or
  logic*.

- **Data Transfer Objects (DTOs) for Inter-module Communication:** The
  use of DTOs in GPU-Scoring-Tool is a practice that can be generalized
  to any project. By defining **simple data containers** to move
  information between modules (or layers), you avoid tight coupling.
  Modules don't need to know each other's internals -- they just agree
  on the data format via the DTO. In inferno, whenever you find yourself
  passing data around or calling into another sub-system, consider using
  a DTO pattern. It could be as simple as a Python dataclass or a
  TypeScript interface that encapsulates the needed fields.
  Standardizing this practice means every codebase will have a clear set
  of "data messages" or structures that glue components together. It
  makes reading the code easier (DTO classes often live in one place and
  are well-documented) and testing easier (you can construct DTO
  instances in tests without needing the full system).

- **Custom Linting for Architecture Enforcement:** Perhaps one of the
  most valuable things to standardize is the **architecture linter**
  approach. By bringing over the lint rules from GPU-Scoring-Tool to
  inferno (and other projects), you ensure a uniform enforcement of best
  practices. This could even evolve into a shared tooling -- for
  example, a common repository or package of lint rules that all your
  projects use, adjusted via config for each project's module names. The
  standard rules would include those dependency checks, layering
  constraints, and perhaps naming conventions that you want everywhere.
  The benefit of standardizing these is huge: every project will
  immediately catch architectural slips, and developers moving between
  projects will find familiar guidelines. Over time, you can refine this
  ruleset as you learn new lessons, and all projects benefit
  simultaneously. Essentially, the linter becomes a **codified
  checklist** of your architecture philosophy -- making your codebases
  resilient to drifting from their design principles.

- **Strict Module Boundaries and Layering:** Beyond just having a
  linter, the general architectural choice in GPU-Scoring-Tool to
  maintain strict module boundaries is itself a best practice to
  continue. Design your code in layers (or clean modules) -- e.g.,
  **Domain Logic**, **Data/Infra**, **Presentation/API** -- and stick to
  one-way dependencies. In GPU-Scoring-Tool, this might have looked
  like: GlyphSieve (domain logic) does not depend on how data is stored
  or how the API request came in; Glyphd (application logic) coordinates
  but doesn't do low-level math; any database or hardware interfacing
  lives in its own layer and doesn't enforce policy. For inferno, define
  what your layers are early (maybe similar layers: core algorithms,
  orchestration, I/O, etc.), and consistently apply that. It's much
  easier to maintain and onboard new devs when the project has a *clear
  structure* and you can say "utilities live here, core logic here,
  nothing from core imports from utilities" (just as an example rule).
  GPU-Scoring-Tool's success shows that investing in this upfront pays
  off in code quality.

- **Thorough Task Documentation and Retrospective:** While not a
  software component, the practice of writing rich task files (as done
  with Junie in GPU-Scoring-Tool) is a *design choice for your
  development process*. Making this a standard across projects means
  every codebase carries an informal history of *why* things were done a
  certain way. It's similar to maintaining a changelog or architectural
  decision record, but integrated with the tasks themselves. Encourage
  the habit of creating a task file for significant features or changes
  in inferno, with the pattern of context, goal, plan, and outcome. Over
  time, this becomes a treasure trove of knowledge. New contributors can
  read closed tasks to understand the reasoning behind current code. It
  also forces you (the developer) to think through and articulate the
  approach before coding (which often leads to better designs and
  catches potential issues early). By standardizing this "tasking"
  approach, you ensure that all projects have not just good code, but
  also good documentation of the code's evolution.

- **Code Reusability via Patterns and Utilities:** Lastly, map out any
  utility classes or patterns from GPU-Scoring-Tool that could be
  abstracted for reuse. Perhaps there were **common utilities** like a
  configuration loader, error handling patterns, or a base class for
  DTOs or pipeline stages. If so, consider pulling those into a common
  library or at least duplicating the pattern in inferno. For instance,
  if Glyphd and inferno's orchestrator share the concept of a "pipeline
  runner" that iterates through stages, that concept can be generalized.
  Standardizing such components means each project doesn't reinvent the
  wheel -- they either import from a shared module or implement to a
  known template. This improves reliability (the pattern is already
  battle-tested) and consistency (developers don't have to learn a whole
  new system for each project).

In summary, many of the strengths of GPU-Scoring-Tool's architecture can
become guiding principles for inferno and future projects. By **layering
your system**, using **DTOs for communication**, enforcing structure
with **lint rules**, writing **excellent task plans**, and reusing
proven **design patterns**, you create a robust, maintainable codebase.
The goal is to make these practices second-nature standards: so whenever
you start or contribute to a new codebase, you'll carry this
architectural toolkit with you, ensuring high quality and consistency
everywhere.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
